hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm and today we are doing roll your
own sushi as promised do you made your
sushi rice and now it's ready to roll
some california rolls and you're going
to need one of these this is a bamboo
sushi mat very cheap you'll get that
your local sushi supply store or the
sushi department at walmart and once you
get one of those you're going to wrap it
in plastic wrap you also need for your
fingers some ice water or cold water and
some vinegar splash net it's just rice
vinegar and that's going to make so the
rice doesn't stick to your fingers are
you going to need one of these nori
seaweed sushi wrappers you're going to
place that on your bamboo sushi mat
shiny side down you're going to take a
snowball sized handful of sushi rice I'm
going to spread evenly over the entire
surface now spread it before you start
padding down you want it all evenly
distributed and then you can lightly tap
it down you just want it on there enough
to stick because we're going to turn
this over but you don't want to mash it
down because we still have to form it
and it will get too gummy so once that's
set you're going to flip it over we're
going to put down a couple pieces of
avocado and I'm going to use a little
bit of a fake crab salad the donations
have been a little slow this week karma
so anyway I'm going to use a fake crab
with just a little touch of mayonnaise
and salt and pepper and I'm going to put
a nice little layer of that and not too
much if you put too much you can't roll
these so you're gonna have to do low
experimenting but you see how much I
have there not a ton and then you're
going to kind of roll your mat up I'll
do this real slow here and the top will
fold right over and that crab and
avocado will stay right in the middle
and see how that works now let me pull
this into the middle here a little bit
so I could I basically finish the roll
so once you roll it and you just got to
be a little careful this when you start
it but once it starts turning over then
just push it down with your fingers
don't press like with all your weight
you just want enough see that to stick
the rice together alright then you want
to kind of make it into a round shape
you can make into a square shape half
circle the mat lets you kind of shape it
any way you want and
that's it now again be careful not to
over press it you want the sushi rice
still to kind of crumble when you eat it
and if you press too hard it does get a
little gummy and that's it we're going
to take a wet sharp thin knife your
sharpest blade you're going to cut right
through that and look at that okay
that's not bad for a Italian
polish-russian chef cook now sometimes
if you're you know you think you're good
you can line up a few together and cut
them like that I like to shake a little
sesame seed on there some people put
that in the rice or on the rice or in
the roll and just shake it on top
there's my soy sauce my pickled ginger
and my decoratively scored wasabi Leung
and that's it
do yourself it's easy it's fun it's a
hell of a lot cheaper karmic donations
and I don't know how you say you can do
it in Japanese but if I knew how I would
say that so as promised there's your
California sushi roll check the site for
more details and as always enjoy
you